---
title: "K8s_01"
date: 2022-03-03T22:38:26+08:00
draft: true

tags: ["Linux","Docker","k8s"]
categories: ["云计算","DevOps"]
author: "w0x7ce"

---

### Cluster up and running

We already installed minikube for you. Check that it is properly installed, by running the minikube version command:

```bash
minikube version
```

OK, we can see that minikube is in place.

Start the cluster, by running the minikube start command:

```bash
minikube start
```

Great! You now have a running Kubernetes cluster in your online terminal. Minikube started a virtual machine for you, and a Kubernetes cluster is now running in that VM.

### Cluster version

To interact with Kubernetes during this bootcamp we’ll use the command line interface, kubectl. We’ll explain kubectl in detail in the next modules, but for now, we’re just going to look at some cluster information. To check if kubectl is installed you can run the kubectl version command:

```bash
kubectl version
```

OK, kubectl is configured and we can see both the version of the client and as well as the server. The client version is the kubectl version; the server version is the Kubernetes version installed on the master. You can also see details about the build.

### Cluster details

Let’s view the cluster details. We’ll do that by running kubectl cluster-info:

```bash
kubectl cluster-info
```

During this tutorial, we’ll be focusing on the command line for deploying and exploring our application. To view the nodes in the cluster, run the kubectl get nodes command:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

This command shows all nodes that can be used to host our applications. Now we have only one node, and we can see that its status is ready (it is ready to accept applications for deployment).


### kubectl basics

Like minikube, kubectl comes installed in the online terminal. Type kubectl in the terminal to see its usage. The common format of a kubectl command is: kubectl action resource. This performs the specified action (like create, describe) on the specified resource (like node, container). You can use --help after the command to get additional info about possible parameters (kubectl get nodes --help).

Check that kubectl is configured to talk to your cluster, by running the kubectl version command:

```bash
kubectl version
```

OK, kubectl is installed and you can see both the client and the server versions.

To view the nodes in the cluster, run the kubectl get nodes command:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

Here we see the available nodes (1 in our case). Kubernetes will choose where to deploy our application based on Node available resources.

### Deploy our app

Let’s deploy our first app on Kubernetes with the kubectl create deployment command. We need to provide the deployment name and app image location (include the full repository url for images hosted outside Docker hub).

kubectl create deployment kubernetes-bootcamp --image=gcr.io/google-samples/kubernetes-bootcamp:v1

Great! You just deployed your first application by creating a deployment. This performed a few things for you:

searched for a suitable node where an instance of the application could be run (we have only 1 available node)
scheduled the application to run on that Node
configured the cluster to reschedule the instance on a new Node when needed
To list your deployments use the get deployments command:

```bash
kubectl get deployments
```

We see that there is 1 deployment running a single instance of your app. The instance is running inside a Docker container on your node.


